# Incident: 2026-04-05 2-45-00

## Summary

Between the hour of 2:00pm MDT and 3:00pm MDT on April 5, 2026, multiple users encountered issues with ordering pizza and having a significant amount of pizza failures. The event was triggered by a some sort of injected issue and such at around 2:30-2:40 MDT. The issue of ordering pizza contained a 500 error and a link with a description that included a link to help end this issue.

A bug in this code caused 500 errors for users ordering pizza. The event was detected by the logging system, the http requests graph, and the pizza failure graph.. The team started working on the event by reviewing the graphs, noticing anamolies after alerts, and checking the logs thouroughly for any potential issues. This significan incident affected 100% of users trying to order their pizza.

## Detection

This incident was detected when the HTTP requests alert and the pizza failure alert was triggered and the JWT-pizza email and team were paged.

Next, more emails were sent, because the first couple of alerts did not point to what was causing the issue, delaying the response by 10 minutes or so.

Better thresholds for alerting the team will be set up by Alden Kim so that issues are detected quicker and any anomalies that affected normal flow of traffic for the application are caught.

## Impact

For 20 minutes or so between 2:20pm-2:40pm MDT on April 5, 2026, numerous users were completely unable to order pizzas from the jwt-pizza appllication.

This incident affected 10 customers (100% OF JWT-PIZZA USERS), who experienced numerous failures in trying to order pizza on the website.

5 alerts were submitted to the development team.

## Timeline

All times are UTC.

- _8:20pm_ - Unknown endpoint errors started occuring in the logs and was noticed on the HTTP request graphs
- _8:30pm_ - Users slowly started experiencing unknown issues when ordering pizzas. One of the users reported that the endpoint was returning "chaos monkey" and such.
- _8:40pm_ - Alerts were triggered and engineers looked at logs confirming the issue of ordering pizzas were happening.
- _8:45pm_ - Engineers were able to resolve the issue of pizza ordering and users were able to continue to order pizzas.
- _8:50pm_ - Engineers confirmed that pizza failures and http requests return to stable and normal levels before the incident.

## Response

After receiving a page at 8:40pm UTC, Alden Kim came online at 8:41pm UTC in Grafana to view the graphs and the logs that triggered some alerts. He had enough experience to look and figure out the issue through the logging events that were happening when users were ordering.

## Root cause

An issue with an potential injection attack, which triggered lots of unknown endpoint requests errors, may have been the root cause of taking down the endpoint for ordering pizzas mainly. As, 20 minutes before orders started failing, metrics, detected an usual amount of these unknown endpoint requests.

## Resolution

By following the necessary links and such provided in the logs, we were able to resolve the issue and get customers back to order pizzas succesfully. The resolution link that was provided was: https://pizza-factory.cs329.click/api/support/c3d99ed0b9ef459bbdab524abb54de9a/report/5fm21147

## Prevention

This issue has not happened in the past, but will be noted as something to fix and be aware about for the team in the future.

## Action items

1. Protection against potential injection attacks through endpoints
2. Better thresholds for our metrics so that any anomaly detected by extra traffic is tracked.
3. Potentially better error log alerts, as some logs did not trigger the necessary alerts as well.
